

The compilation of a standalone HYCOM from the NERSC-HYCOM-CICE model is mainly carried out using a modified compile script in "$NHCROOT/bin", so-called compile_model.sh. Here, I will explain briefly all required steps to make this compilation up and running. Note the general description can be found in "$NHCROOT/HYCOM-CICE-compilation.md", and I refer you to read through it for more details.

The compile script has to be run in the experiment
dir, and a local directory "build" will be created that contains a copy of the
source code (copied from $NHCROOT/hycom/RELO/).  Its inside this directory that
the compilation of the code takes place and final executable will be located.


#  Invocation of compile_model.sh

      Example:
         $(basename $0) [ -u ]  [ -m mpi_library ]  compiler

      arguments   :
         compiler : compiler to use for. Currently supported: ifort gfortran pgi

      optional arguments :
         -u              : update code in build dir from $sourcedir
         -m mpi_library  : on some machines you need to specify what mpi library to use


# compile_models.sh, step by step 

## Initial stuff...
An environment variable called MACROID needs to be specified according to the following naming role:

MACROID=$ARCH.$SITE.$compiler

where ARCH denotes architecture (e.g. Linux, Darwin,…), SITE is deduced from hostname using the linux "usename" command (e.g. Hexagon, Sisu, Fram,…), and compiler stands for the name of compiler (e.g. fortran, intel, pgi,….). You may need to modify the "compile_model.sh" to account for the change of site. 

## Changes in $NHCROOT/hycom/RELO/config

As next step, we include a configuration file called $MACROID_hycom (e.g. Linux.sisu.intel_hycom) in the location of $NHCROOT/hycom/RELO/config. This configuration file is the same as the $MACROID_cice (where TYPE, here, has been set to "cice"), except we have removed the flags related to the ESMF from CPPFLAGS and INCLUDES variables. For example, under the Sisu HPC in the case of coupled model confiuguration, they are given by

INCLUDES      = -I$(MPI_HOME)/include  -I${ESMF_MOD_DIR} -I${ESMF_DIR}/include -I./CICE/rundir/compile


CPPFLAGS      = -DIA32 -DREAL8 -DMPI -DSERIAL_IO -DNAN2003 -DTIMER -DRELO  -DUSE_ESMF -DUSE_ESMF_5 -DNERSC_HYCOM_CICE
EXTRALIBS     = -L${ESMF_LIB_DIR}/ -lesmf -lnetcdf
  

which are simply modified as follows to exclude the setups related to the ESMF coupler: 

INCLUDES      = -I$(MPI_HOME)/include

CPPFLAGS      = -DIA32 -DREAL8 -DMPI -DSERIAL_IO -DNAN2003 -DTIMER -DRELO -DNERSC_HYCOM_CICE



* You need to take care of changes according to the HPC system along with correct settings of compiler flags.

## Changes in $NHCROOT/hycom/RELO/src_2.2.98ZA-07Tsig0-i-sm-sse_relo_mpi

In this folder, we replace the old "Makefile" by the new one, which modified to include the correct flags required for the compilation of standalone HYCOM.

Another script to compile model, so-called Make_hycom.csh, has been also added in this folder. This script is called by "compile_model.sh" when "iceflg" is set to zero in the "blkdat.input" file.



## Changes in experiment folder

Since the model has been designed for a coupled system, there are few inconsistency when try to decouple HYCOM and CICE. These inconsistent features are appeared in two source codes located in $NHCROOT/hycom/RELO/src_2.2.98ZA-07Tsig0-i-sm-sse_relo_mpi (i.e. hycom.F and mod_hycom.F). To avoid any modification of the HYCOM original source codes at this stage, I created a folder called "mysource" including modified hycom.F and mod_hycom.F. These two codes are copied to the "$EXPT_PATH/build/src_2.2.98ZA-07Tsig0-i-sm-sse_relo_mpi" during the compilation of the model only when "iceflg" is set to zero, in the "blkdat.input". Furthermore, you need to have "ice_in" in the experiment folder (this namelist file is only read in the initialisation of model which later on will be untangled from the procedure of standalone compilation).

# Compile HYCOM

The final step is to compile the HYCOM source code depending on the status of "iceflg" in the "blkdat.input". If "iceflg" is non-zero, the model compiles and links both HYCOM and CICE models in order to generate the hycom-cice executable. If "iceflg" is zero the hycom-cice executable is generated by only compiling the HYCOM model.

